# Sentiment Analysis
Testing the Importance of Domain-Specific Data for Sentiment Analysis  
Robert Gramlich and Nathan Thomas

INTRODUCTION
Sentiment analysis has been used in the E-commerce space for many applications. It has been both a field of research with many methods being explored and an implemented system that businesses can use to make decisions about their products. This is especially important for businesses as public sentiment can influence how a product performs. If there is positive sentiment then the business may want to keep producing, or produce more of, said product. If there is negative sentiment then it may not be worth making as much of the product, or a different strategy to sell it might be needed.  Either way, identifying the sentiment of the public is key and looking at reviews is extremely useful in doing this.  
There have been many methods over the years of accomplishing this. Typically, sentiment analysis has been used to classify text into three categories: positive, negative, and neutral. To accomplish this many machine learning techniques have been used such as decision trees, support vector machine, and more recently neural networks.  
All these takes in tokenized data and then label each review as positive, negative, or neutral. Tokenized data is just the process of taking out all the “unnecessary” words from reviews. This includes words that do not directly affect the sentiment like “the”, “and”, and “this”.
Some studies have shown the importance of domain-specific data for both choice and performance of model. The choice of model is important for both accuracy and time complexity. Some models may perform similarly but one finishes in minutes while the other takes half a day to run.
Our contributions are twofold: Demonstrate how domain-specific data affects popular models in the field and compare those models on multiple datasets. To accomplish this, we will use three datasets that differ in their specificity. The least specific dataset we look at is one that has a random selection of tweets that have some sort of sentiment. Next is a dataset of reviews from Flipkart which sells a variety of items. The last dataset we look at is one of women’s clothing reviews in the E-commerce space.
